#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Use of fixed-width output format
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MET does not use the Fortran-like fixed width format in its ASCII output
 file.
 Instead, the column widths are adjusted for each run to insert at least
 one space between adjacent columns.
 The header columns of the MET output contain user-defined strings which
 may be of arbitrary length.
 For example, columns such as MODEL, OBTYPE, and DESC may be set by the
 user to any string value.
 Additionally, the amount of precision written is also configurable.
 The "output_precision" config file entry can be changed from its default
 value of 5 decimal places...
 up to 12 decimal places.
 That too would impact the column widths of the output.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Due to these issues, it is not possible to select a reasonable fixed width
 for each column ahead of time.
 The AsciiTable class in MET does a lot of work to line up the output columns,
 making sure there's at least one space between them.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If a fixed-width format is needed, the easiest option would be writing a
 script to post-process the MET output into the fixed-width format that
 is needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If a fixed-width format is needed, the easiest option would be writing a
 script to post-process the MET output into the fixed-width format that
 the code expects.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
