.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Expected Differences ##

- [ ] Do these changes introduce new tools, command line arguments, or configuration file options? **[Yes or No]**</br>
If **yes**, please describe:</br>

- [ ] Do these changes modify the structure of existing or add new output data types (e.g. statistic line types or NetCDF variables)? **[Yes or No]**</br>
If **yes**, please describe:</br>

## Pull Request Testing ##

- [ ] Describe testing already performed for these changes:</br>

- [ ] Recommend testing for the reviewer(s) to perform, including the location of input datasets, and any additional instructions:</br>

- [ ] Do these changes include sufficient documentation updates, ensuring that no errors or warnings exist in the build of the documentation? **[Yes or No]**

- [ ] Do these changes include sufficient testing updates? **[Yes or No]**

- [ ] Will this PR result in changes to the test suite? **[Yes or No]**</br>
If **yes**, describe the new output and/or changes to the existing output:</br>

- [ ] Please complete this pull request review by **[Fill in date]**.</br>

## Pull Request Checklist ##
See the [METplus Workflow](https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Contributors_Guide/github_workflow.html) for details.
- [ ] Review the source issue metadata (required labels, projects, and milestone).
- [ ] Complete the PR definition above.
- [ ] Ensure the PR title matches the feature or bugfix branch name.
- [ ] Define the PR metadata, as permissions allow.
Select: **Reviewer(s)**
Select: **Organization** level software support **Project** or **Repository** level development cycle **Project**
Select: **Milestone** as the version that will include these changes
- [ ] After submitting the PR, select the :gear: icon in the **Development** section of the right hand sidebar. Search for the issue that this PR will close and select it, if it is not already selected.
- [ ] After the PR is approved, merge your changes. If permissions do not allow this, request that the reviewer do the merge.
- [ ] Close the linked issue and delete your feature or bugfix branch from GitHub.

Commit message:

Per #2659, porting updates to GitHub issue and pull request templates over to the develop branch

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Expected Differences ##

- [ ] Do these changes introduce new tools, command line arguments, or configuration file options? **[Yes or No]**</br>
If **yes**, please describe:</br>

- [ ] Do these changes modify the structure of existing or add new output data types (e.g. statistic line types or NetCDF variables)? **[Yes or No]**</br>
If **yes**, please describe:</br>

## Pull Request Testing ##

- [ ] Describe testing already performed for these changes:</br>

- [ ] Recommend testing for the reviewer(s) to perform, including the location of input datasets, and any additional instructions:</br>

- [ ] Do these changes include sufficient documentation updates, ensuring that no errors or warnings exist in the build of the documentation? **[Yes or No]**

- [ ] Do these changes include sufficient testing updates? **[Yes or No]**

- [ ] Will this PR result in changes to the test suite? **[Yes or No]**</br>
If **yes**, describe the new output and/or changes to the existing output:</br>

- [ ] Please complete this pull request review by **[Fill in date]**.</br>

## Pull Request Checklist ##
See the [METplus Workflow](https://metplus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Contributors_Guide/github_workflow.html) for details.
- [ ] Review the source issue metadata (required labels, projects, and milestone).
- [ ] Complete the PR definition above.
- [ ] Ensure the PR title matches the feature or bugfix branch name.
- [ ] Define the PR metadata, as permissions allow.
Select: **Reviewer(s)** and **Development** issue
Select: **Milestone** as the version that will include these changes
Select: **Coordinated METplus-X.Y Support** project for bugfix releases or **MET-X.Y.Z Development** project for official releases
- [ ] After submitting the PR, select the :gear: icon in the **Development** section of the right hand sidebar. Search for the issue that this PR will close and select it, if it is not already selected.
- [ ] After the PR is approved, merge your changes. If permissions do not allow this, request that the reviewer do the merge.
- [ ] Close the linked issue and delete your feature or bugfix branch from GitHub.
