#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ../book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Improving Speed of MET Tools with Gen_Vx_Mask
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main reason to use gen_vx_mask is to make the MET statistics tools (i.e.
 point_stat or grid_stat) run faster.
 It can be slow to figure out which points are inside/outside a polyline
 region if the polyline contains thousands of points.
 In that case, run gen_vx_mask to create the mask once rather than having
 to recreate it each time a MET statistics tool is run.
 But if the polyline only contains a small number of points, running gen_vx_mask
 first would only save a second or two.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the usage statement for gen_vx_mask, the "mask_file" is an ASCII Lat/Lon
 polyline file or gridded data file defining the masking region.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So pass a gridded data file for the nest as the "mask_file" rather than
 having to create a set of lat/lon points.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here's an example of that, using data from the MET tarball: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
${MET_BUILD_BASE}/bin/gen_vx_mask 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
data/sample_fcst/2005080700/wrfprs_ruc13_12.tm00_G212 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
data/sample_fcst/2009123112/arw-fer-gep1/d01_2009123112_02400.grib 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
mask.nc -name MY_MASK
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the result contains slightly different matched pair counts (621, 619
 and 617).
 There could be a couple of answers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The polyline mask for the different grids is producing slightly different
 results and the differences lie along the boundary of the mask.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
There are some missing data values somewhere in the forecast and observations
 causing slightly different matched pairs.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To investigate this, run a configuration of point_stat to dump out the MPR
 lines for those three runs.
 Then take a closer look at them to see where the differences lie.
 Identifying the stations where the differences occur is the first step
 in finding an explanation.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
