#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
GRIB to NetCDF conversion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First, it is not necessary to convert GRIB to NetCDF prior to running MODE.
 MODE can take as input any of the gridded file formats that MET supports,
 such as GRIB1, GRIB2, and a few flavors of NetCDF.
 The only difference is how to set up the MODE config file to indicate what
 data to read.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Second, composite reflectivity (REFC) is defined in GRIB parameter table
 version number 129.
 Specifying that information can make this work.
 Try running this command: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
$MET_BUILD/bin/plot_data_plane forecast.grb refc.ps 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
'name="REFC"; level="L0"; GRIB1_ptv=129;'
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That will extract the REFC record and create a PostScript plot of it.
 Notice that the "GRIB1_ptv=129;" specifies the parameter table version
 number.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While it is not necessary to convert to NetCDF prior to running MODE, if
 this is needed for some reason, it can certainly do that.
 Use the pcp_combine "-add" option to do that: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
$MET_BUILD/bin/pcp_combine -add forecast.grb 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
'name="REFC"; level="L0"; GRIB1_ptv=129; lead_time="120000";' 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
forecast.nc -name REFC
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
