#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Pairwise differences using tc_stat
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One necessary step in computing pairwise differences is "event equalizing"
 the data.
 This means extracting a subset of cases that are common to both models.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
While the tc_stat tool does not compute pairwise difference, it can apply
 the "event_equalization" logic to extract the cases common to two models.
 This is done using a the config file "event_equal = TRUE;" option or setting
 "-event_equal true" on the command line.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most of the hurricane track analysis and plotting is done using the plot_tcmpr.R
 Rscript.
 It makes a call to the tc_stat tool to the track data down to the desired
 subset, compute pairwise difference if needed, and then plot the result.
 By way of example, *** there is an attached a sample file containing a
 bunch of output from tc_pairs, along with the commands that could be used
 to compute a pairwise difference:***
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
cd met-5.2 wget ftp://ftp.rap.ucar.edu/incoming/irap/met_help/penny_data/tc_pairs_ou
tput.tcst setenv MET_BUILD_BASE `pwd` Rscript scripts/Rscripts/plot_tcmpr.R
 -lookin tc_pairs_output.tcst -filter '-amodel AHWI,GFSI' -series AMODEL
 AHWI,GFSI,AHWI-GFSI -plot MEAN,BOXPLOT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
***The resulting plots it created are attached.
 They include three series...
 one for AHWI, one for GFSI, and one for their pairwise difference.***
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's a bit cumbersome to understand all the options available, but this
 may be really useful.
 If nothing else, it could adapted to dump out the pairwise differences
 that are needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
========
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Subject: CI for MET-TC tc_stat 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From: John Halley Gotway 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Time: Fri Mar 03 17:49:53 2017
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
