#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
MET compatibility with NetCDF files
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MET doesn't support all types of gridded NetCDF files.
 It only supports the MET NetCDF format (e.g.
 the output of the pcp_combine tool), the output of the WRF pinterp (or
 wrfinterp) utilities, and CF-compliant NetCDF files.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When using a new data file format, instead of running it through MODE, use
 plot_data_plane to make sure MET is reading it correctly.
 This will make sure the name and level settings work as expected, and it
 also creates an output plot so I can see that MET is (or is not) reading/plotti
ng the data as expected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here is an example for {MET_BASE}/plot_data_plane:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
/scratch4/BMC/dtc/MET/{MET_BASE}/bin/plot_data_plane 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
prwin_ctr.7278.pgbf90.gfs.2006022500.ver.nc 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
lsp_6h.ps 'name="LSP_6h"; level="(*,*)"; file_type=NETCDF_NCCF;'
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
***The resulting image is attached.*** There are several issues here: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
- plot_data_plane had to be told to interpret this as CF-compliant NetCDF
 using NETCDF_NCCF.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
- The timing info in that file isn't specified in the CF-compliant way...
 so MET can't discern the initialization, valid, and lead times.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description
- And then there's the obvious problem (in the image) of the world being
 upside down and backwards!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is possible to get *something*, there are obviously a lot of issues.
 Basically, MET doesn't support the gridded NetCDF file format.
 Is this data possibly available in GRIB? Is there any control over the
 NetCDF file format in use?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
