#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Upside Down Grid
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The user provides a gridded data file to MET and it runs without error,
 but the data is packed upside down.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Try using the "file_type" entry.
 The "file_type" entry specifies the input file type (e.g.
 GRIB1, GRIB2, NETCDF_MET, NETCDF_PINT, NETCDF_NCCF) rather than letting
 the code determine it itself.
 For valid file_type values, see "File types" in the data/config/ConfigConstants
 file.
 This entry should be defined within the "fcst" or "obs" dictionaries.
 Sometimes, directly specifying the type of file will help MET figure out
 what to properly do with the data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another option is to use the 
\series bold
regrid_data_plane
\series default
 tool.
 The regrid_data_plane tool may be run to read data from any gridded data
 file MET supports (i.e.
 GRIB1, GRIB2, and a variety of NetCDF formats), interpolate to a user-specified
 grid, and write the field(s) out in NetCDF format.
 See Regrid_data_plane tool (Section 5.2) in the MET User's Guide for more
 detailed information.
 While the regrid_data_plane tool is useful as a stand-alone tool, the capabilit
y is also included to automatically regrid data in most of the MET tools
 that handle gridded data.
 This "regrid" entry is a dictionary containing information about how to
 handle input gridded data files.
 The "regird" entry specifies regridding logic and has a "to_grid" entry
 that can be set to NONE, FCST, OBS, a named grid, the path to a gridded
 data file defining the grid, or an explicit grid specification string.
 See the regrid entry in Configuration File Details (Section 3.5) in the
 MET User's Guide for a more detailed description of the configuration file
 entries that control automated regridding.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A single model level can be plotted using the plot_data_plane utility.
 This tool can assist the user by showing the data to be verified to ensure
 that times and locations match up as expected.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
