#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
BUFRLIB Errors during MET installation
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
error message: /usr/bin/ld: cannot find -lbufr
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The linker can not find the BUFRLIB library archive file it needs.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
export MET_BUFRLIB=/home/username/BUFRLIB_v10.2.3:$MET_BUFRLIB
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It isn't making it's way into the configuration because BUFRLIB_v10.2.3 isn't
 showing up in the output of make.
 This may indicate the wrong shell type.
 The .bashrc file sets the environment for the bourne shell, but the above
 error could indicate that the c- shell is being used instead.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Try the following 2 things:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Check to make sure this file exists: 
\begin_inset Separator latexpar
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout LyX-Code
ls /home/username/BUFRLIB_v10.2.3/libbufr.a
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Rerun the MET configure command using the following option on the command
 line: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
MET_BUFRLIB=/home/username/BUFRLIB_v10.2.3 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After doing that, please try recompiling MET.
 If it fails, please send met_help@ucar.edu the following log files.
 "make_install.log" as well as "config.log".
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
