#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Plot_Data_Plane - Specifying GRIB Version
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These files are in GRIB2 format, but they’ve named them using the ".grib"
 suffix.
 When MET reads Gridded data files, it must determine the type of file it's
 reading.
 The first thing it checks is the suffix of the file.
 The following are all interpreted as GRIB1: .grib, .grb, and .gb.
 While these mean GRIB2: .grib2, .grb2, and .gb2.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are 2 choices.
 Rename the files to use a GRIB2 suffix or keep them named this way and
 explicitly tell MET to interpret them as GRIB2 using the "file_type" configurat
ion option.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The examples below use the plot_data_plane tool to plot the data.
 Set 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
"file_type = GRIB2;".
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To keep them named this way, add "file_type = GRIB2;" to all the MET configurati
on files (i.e.
 Grid-Stat, MODE, and so on) that you use:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
{MET_BASE}/bin/plot_data_plane 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
test_2.5_prog.grib 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
test_2.5_prog.ps 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
'name="TSTM"; level="A0"; file_type=GRIB2;' 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-plot_range 0 100
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When trying to get MET to read a particular gridded data file, use the plot_data
_plane tool to test it out.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
