#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ../book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Pcp_Combine - 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

-subtract
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 Example
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Run wgrib on the data files and the output is listed below:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
279:503477484:d=15062313:APCP:kpds5=61:kpds6=1:kpds7=0:TR= 10:P1=3:P2=247:TimeU=
0:sfc:1015min 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
fcst:NAve=0 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
279:507900854:d=15062313:APCP:kpds5=61:kpds6=1:kpds7=0:TR= 10:P1=3:P2=197:TimeU=
0:sfc:965min 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
fcst:NAve=0
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Notice the output which says "TR=10".
 TR means time range indicator and a value of 10 means that the level informatio
n contains an instantaneous forecast time, not an accumulation interval.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here's a table describing the TR values: 
\begin_inset Flex URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://www.nco.ncep.noaa.gov/pmb/docs/on388/table5.html
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The default logic for pcp_combine is to look for GRIB code 61 (i.e.
 APCP) defined with an accumulation interval (TR = 4).
 Since the data doesn't meet that criteria, the default logic of pcp_combine
 won't work.
 The arguments need to be more specific to tell pcp_combine exactly what
 to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Try the command:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
${MET_BUILD_BASE}/bin/pcp_combine -subtract 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
forecast.grb 'name="APCP"; level="L0"; lead_time="165500";' 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
forecast2.grb 'name="APCP"; level="L0"; lead_time="160500";' 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
forecast.nc -name APCP_A005000
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some things to point out here:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Notice in the wgrib output that the forecast times are 1015 min and 965
 min.
 In HHMMSS format, that's "165500" and "160500".
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
An accumulation interval can’t be specified since the data isn't stored
 that way.
 Instead, use a config file string to describe the data to use.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The config file string specifies a "name" (APCP) and "level" string.
 APCP is defined at the surface, so a level value of 0 (L0) was specified.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Technically, the "lead_time" doesn’t need to be specified at all, pcp_combine
 would find the single APCP record in each input GRIB file and use them.
 But just in case, the lead_time option was included to be extra certain
 to get exactly the data that is needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The default output variable name pcp_combine would write would be "APCP_L0".
 However, to indicate that its a 50-minute "accumulation interval" use a
 different output variable name (APCP_A005000).
 Of course any string name is possible....
 Maybe "Precip50Minutes" or "RAIN50".
 But whatever string is chosen will be used in the Grid-Stat, Point-Stat,
 or MODE config file to tell that tool what variable to process.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
