#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ../book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Gen_Vx_Mask - Masking Region Intersection between Stations and Polyline
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have a list of stations to use for verification.
 I also have a poly region defined.
 If I specify both of these should the result be a union of them?
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
noindent
\backslash
vskip 0.1in
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These settings are defined in the "mask" section of the Point-Stat configuration
 file.
 You can define masking regions in one of 3 ways, as a "grid", a "poly"
 line file, or a "sid" list of station ID's.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you specify one entry for "poly" and one entry for "sid", you should
 see output for those two different masks.
 Note that each of these settings is an array of values, as indicated by
 the square brackets "[]" in the default config file.
 If you specify 5 grids, 3 poly's, and 2 SID lists, you'd get output for
 those 10 separate masking regions.
 Point-Stat does not compute unions or intersections of masking regions.
 Instead, they are each processed separately.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Is it true that you really want to use a polyline to define an area and
 then use a SID list to capture additional points outside of that polyline?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If so, your options are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
- Define one single SID list which include all the points currently inside
 the polyline as well as the extra ones outside.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
- Continue verifying using one polyline and one SID list and write partial
 sums and contingency table counts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Then aggregate the results together by running a STAT-Analysis job.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
