#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "courier" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip bigskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Python Embedding 
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "chap:App_F_Python_Embedding"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As of release 8.0, a degree of Python embedding has been made available in
 MET.
 Users may use Python scripts and whatever associated Python packages they
 wish in order to prepare 2D gridded data fields for reading by the MET
 tools.
 We fully expect that this degree of embedding will increase in the future.
 In addition, plans are in place in upcoming releases, to extend Python
 with MET, so that the user may invoke MET tools directly from their Python
 script.
 Currently only Python 2.x is supported, but users should be aware that this
 will soon be changing to Python 3.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to use this feature, the user's local Python installation must
 have the C-language Python header files and libraries.
 Sometimes these are deleted at the end of the installation process, leaving
 only the binary executable and any run-time shared object files needed,
 but they must be present in order to use the MET Python embedding.
 Assuming the requisite Python files are present, and that the MET Python
 embedding is enabled when building MET (which is done by passing the 
\family typewriter
--enable-python
\family default
 option to the 
\family typewriter
configure
\family default
 command line), the MET C++ code will use these in the compilation process
 and link to the Python libraries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition to the 
\family typewriter
configure
\family default
 option mentioned above, two environment variables, 
\family typewriter
MET_PYTHON_CC
\family default
 and 
\family typewriter
MET_PYTHON_LD
\family default
 must be set prior to compiling MET.
 These are used on the compiler command line to enable the compiler to find
 the requisite Python header files and libraries.
 Fortunately, Python provides a way to set these variables properly, freeing
 the user from having to have expert knowledge of the compiling and linking
 process.
 Along with the 
\family typewriter
python
\family default
 executable, there should be another executable called 
\family typewriter
python-config, 
\family default
whose output can be used to set these environment variables as follows:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
On the command line, run 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

 
\family typewriter
python-config --cflags
\family default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, and set the value of 
\family typewriter
MET_PYTHON_CC 
\family default
to the output of that command.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Again on the command line, run 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\family typewriter
python-config --ldflags
\family default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, and set the value of 
\family typewriter
MET_PYTHON_LD 
\family default
to the output of that command.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Make sure these environment variables are set and in effect before building
 MET.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
vskip 0.1in
\backslash
centerline{
\backslash
hbox to 3.0in{
\backslash
hrulefill}}
\backslash
vskip 0.1in
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We now turn our attention to the details of how to write Python scripts
 in order that the MET tools may extract 2D gridded data fields from them.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
