#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Grid_Stat - Neighborhood Methods Boundaries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When computing fractions skill score, MET uses the "vld_thresh" setting
 in the configuration file to decide how to handle data along the edge of
 the domain.
 Let us say it is computing a fractional coverage field using a 5x5 neighborhood
 and it is at the edge of the domain.
 15 points contain valid data and 10 points are outside the domain.
 Grid-Stat computes the valid data ratio as 15/25 = 0.6.
 Then it applies the valid data threshold.
 Suppose vld_thresh = 0.5 ...
 since 0.6 > 0.5 MET will compute a fractional coverage value for that point
 using the 15 valid data points.
 Next suppose vld_thresh = 1.0 ...
 since 0.6 is less than 1.0, MET will just skip that point by setting it to
 bad data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Setting vld_thresh = 1.0 will ensure that FSS will only be computed at points
 where all NxN values contain valid data.
 Setting it to 0.5 only requires half of them.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using grid_stat to evaluate precipitation, whose minimum value should be
 0.
 If the thresholding the data greater-than-or-equal-to 0 (>= 0), that will
 always evaluate to true for precipitation.
 Consider using strictly greater-than 0 (>0) instead.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
