#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Grid_Stat -Complex masking region 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is a way to accomplish defining intersections and unions of multiple
 fields to define masks through additional steps.
 Prior to running Grid-Stat, run the Gen-Poly-Mask tool one or more times
 to define a more complex masking area by thresholding multiple fields.
 The syntax of doing so gets a little tricky.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here's an example.
 Let's say there is a forecast GRIB file (fcst.grb) which contains 2 records...
 one for 2-m temperature and a second for 6-hr accumulated precip.
 We only want grid points that are below freezing with non-zero precip.
 We'll run gen_vx_mask twice...
 once to define the temperature mask and a second time to intersect that
 with the precip mask:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
gen_vx_mask fcst.grb fcst.grb tmp_mask.nc 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-type data 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-mask_field 'name="TMP"; level="Z2"' -thresh le273
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
gen_vx_mask tmp_mask.nc fcst.grb tmp_and_precip_mask.nc 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-type data 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-input_field 'name="TMP_Z2"; level="(*,*)";' 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-mask_field 'name="APCP"; level="A6";' -thresh gt0 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-intersection -name "FREEZING_PRECIP"
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first one is pretty straight-forward.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The input field (fcst.grb) defines the domain for the mask.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Since we're doing data masking and the data we want lives in fcst.grb, we
 pass it in again as the mask_file.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Lastly "-mask_field" specifies the data we want from the mask file and "-thresh"
 specifies the event threshold.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second call is the tricky one...
 it says...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Do data masking (-type data)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Read the NetCDF variable named "TMP_Z2" from the input file (tmp_mask.nc)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Define the mask by reading 6-hour precip from the mask file (fcst.grb) and
 looking for values > 0 (-mask_field)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Apply intersection logic when combining the "input" value with the "mask"
 value (-insersection).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Name the output NetCDF variable as "FREEZING_PRECIP" (-name).
 This is totally optional, but convenient.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Script up multiple calls to gen_vx_mask to apply to complex masking logic...
 and then pass the output mask file to Grid- Stat in its configuration file.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
