#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ../book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
STAT_Analysis - Speed Up Run Times
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By default, STAT-Analysis has two options enabled which slow it down.
 Disabling these two options will create quicker run times:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The computation of rank correlation statistics, Spearmans Rank Correlation
 and Kendall's Tau.
 Disable them using "-rank_corr_flag FALSE".
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The computation of bootstrap confidence intervals.
 Disable them using "-n_boot_rep 0".
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Two more suggestions for faster run times.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Instead of using "-fcst_var u", use "-by fcst_var".
 This will compute statistics separately for each unique entry found in
 the FCST_VAR column.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Instead of using "-out" to write the output to a text file, use "-out_stat"
 which will write a full STAT output file, including all the header columns.
 This will create a long list of values in the OBTYPE column.
 To avoid the long, OBTYPE column value, manually set the output using "-set_hdr
 OBTYPE ALL_TYPES".
 Or set its value to whatever is needed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
${MET_BUILD_BASE}/bin/stat_analysis 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-lookin diag_conv_anl.2015060100.stat 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-job aggregate_stat -line_type MPR -out_line_type CNT -by FCST_VAR 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-out_stat diag_conv_anl.2015060100_cnt.txt -set_hdr OBTYPE ALL_TYPES 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-n_boot_rep 0 -rank_corr_flag FALSE -v 4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Adding the "-by FCST_VAR" option to compute stats for all variables and
 runs quickly.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
