#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass ../book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Stat_Analysis - 'Aggregate to Average Scores' Example
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What is the best way to average the > FSS > scores with several days even
 several months?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Below is the best way to aggregate together the Neighborhood Continuous
 (NBRCNT) lines across multiple days, specifically the fractions skill score
 (FSS).
 The STAT-Analysis tool is designed to do this.
 This example is for aggregating scores for the accumulated precipitation
 (APCP) field.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Run the "aggregate" job type in stat_analysis to do this:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
${MET_BUILD_BASE}/bin/stat_analysis -lookin directory/file*_nbrcnt.txt 
\backslash
 -job aggregate -line_type NBRCNT -by FCST_VAR,FCST_LEAD,FCST_THRESH,INTERP_MTHD
,INTERP_PNTS -out_stat agg_nbrcnt.txt
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This job reads all the files that are passed to it on the command line with
 the "-lookin" option.
 List explicit filenames to read them directly.
 Listing a top-level directory name will search that directory for files
 ending in ".stat".
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this case, the job running is to "aggregate" the "NBRCNT" line type.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this case, the "-by" option is being used and lists several header columns.
 STAT-Analysis will run this job separately for each unique combination
 of those header column entries.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The output is printed to the screen, or use the "-out_stat" option to also
 write the aggregated output to a file named "agg_nbrcnt.txt".
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
