#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Stat_Analysis - '-aggregate_stat' Example
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In STAT-Analysis, there is a "- vx_mask" job filtering option.
 That option reads the VX_MASK column from the input STAT lines and applies
 string matching with the values in that column.
 Presumably, all of the MPR lines will have the value of "FULL" in the VX_MASK
 column.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
STAT-Analysis has the ability to read MPR lines and recompute statistics
 from them using the same library code that the other MET tools use.
 The job command options which begin with "-out..." are used to specify settings
 to be applied to the output of that process.
 For example, the "-fcst_thresh" option filters strings from the input "FCST_THR
ESH" header column.
 The "-out_fcst_thresh" option defines the threshold to be applied to the
 output of STAT-Analysis.
 So reading MPR lines and applying a threshold to define contingency table
 statistics (CTS) would be done using the "-out_fcst_thresh" option.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
STAT-Analysis does have the ability to filter MPR lat/lon locations using...
 - the "-mask_poly" option for a lat/lon polyline - the "-mask_grid" option
 to define a retention grid.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, there is currently no "-mask_sid" option.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With met-5.2 and later versions, one option is to apply column string matching
 using the "-column_str" option to define the list of station ID's you'd
 like to aggregate.
 That job would look something like this:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
stat_analysis -lookin path/to/mpr/directory 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-job aggregate_stat -line_type MPR -out_line_type CNT 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-column_str OBS_SID SID1,SID2,SID3,...,SIDN 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-set_hdr VX_MASK SID_GROUP_NAME 
\backslash
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
-out_stat mpr_to_cnt.stat
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Where SID1...SIDN is a comma-separated list of the station id's in the group.
 Notice that a value for the output VX_MASK column using the "-set_hdr"
 option has been specified.
 Otherwise, this would show a list of the unique values found in that column.
 Presumably, all the input VX_MASK columns say "FULL" so that's what the
 output would say.
 Use "-set_hdr" to explicitly set the output value.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
