#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Pcp_Combine - Data Formats that MET Reads 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MET can read gridded data in GRIB1, GRIB2, or 3 different flavors of NetCDF:
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The "internal" NetCDF format that looks like the output of the pcp_combine
 tool.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
CF-compliant NetCDF3 files.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The output of the wrf_interp utility.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If there are the NetCDF output from WRF, use UPP to post-process it.
 It does not need to be "lat-lon"...
 it can be post-processed to whatever projection is needed..
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is in general no easy way to convert NetCDF to GRIB.
 If the NetCDF data is self generated, make it look like the NetCDF output
 from pcp_combine, or preferably, make it CF-compliant.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Looking at the accumulation interval of the precipitation data in the WRF
 output files from UPP, use the "wgrib" utility to dump out that sort of
 information:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
wgrib wrfprs_d01.02 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
wgrib wrfprs_d01.03 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
...
 and so on
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The question is whether the output actually contains 1-hourly accumulated
 precip, or does it contain runtime accumulation.
 Runtime accumulation means that the 6-hour wrf file contains 0 to 6 hours
 of precip; the 7- hour file contains 0 to 7 hours of precip; and so on.
 The precip values just accumulate over the course of the entire model integrati
on.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The default for WRF-ARW is runtime accumulation.
 So if WRF-ARW is running and the output bucket interval wasn’t specifically
 changed, then that's very likely.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If that is the case, you can change these values to interval accumulations.
 Use the pcp_combine "-subtract" option instead of "-sum".
 Suppose the 6 hours of precip between the 6hr and 12hr forecasts is wanted.
 Run the following:
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
pcp_combine -subtract wrfprs_d01.12 12 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
wrfprs_d01.06 06 apcp_06_to_12.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That says...
 get 12 hours of precip from the first file and 6 hours from the second
 file and subtract them.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
