#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Pcp_Combine - Multiple Examples of Add and Subtract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Run the MET pcp_combine tool to put the NAM data into 3-hourly accumulations.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
0-3 hour accumulation is already in the 03UTC file.
 Run this file through pcp_combine as a pass-through to put it into NetCDF
 format: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
[MET_BUILD_BASE}/pcp_combine -add 03_file.grb 03 APCP_00_03.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3-6 hour accumulation.
 Subtract 0-6 and 0-3 accumulations: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
[MET_BUILD_BASE}/pcp_combine -subtract 06_file.grb 06 03_file.grb 03 APCP_03_06.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
6-9 hour accumulation.
 Subtract 0-9 and 0-6 accumulations: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
[MET_BUILD_BASE}/pcp_combine -subtract 09_file.grb 09 06_file.grb 06 APCP_06_09.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
9-12 hour accumulation.
 Subtract 0-12 and 0-9 accumulations: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
[MET_BUILD_BASE}/pcp_combine -subtract 12_file.grb 12 09_file.grb 09 APCP_09_12.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
12-15 hour accumulation.
 Just run as a pass-through again: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
[MET_BUILD_BASE}/pcp_combine -add 15_file.grb 03 APCP_12_15.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
15-18 hour accumulation.
 Subtract 12-18 and 12-15 accumulations: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
[MET_BUILD_BASE}/pcp_combine -subtract 18_file.grb 06 15_file.grb 03 APCP_15_18.nc
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And so on...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Run the 0-3 and 12-15 through pcp_combine even though they already have
 the 3-hour accumulation.
 That way, all of the NAM files will be in the same file format, and can
 use the same configuration file settings for the other MET tools (grid_stat,
 mode, etc.).
 If the NAM files are a mix of GRIB and NetCDF, the logic would need to
 be a bit more complicated.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
